<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@thi.ng/hiccup](./hiccup.md) &gt; [serialize](./hiccup.serialize.md)

## serialize variable

Recursively normalizes and serializes given tree as HTML/SVG/XML string. Expands any embedded component functions with their results. Each node of the input tree can have one of the following input forms:

```js
["tag", ...]
["tag#id.class1.class2", ...]
["tag", {other: "attrib"}, ...]
["tag", {...}, "body", function, ...]
[function, arg1, arg2, ...]
[{render: (ctx,...) => [...]}, args...]
iterable

```
Tags can be defined in "Zencoding" convention, e.g.

```js
["div#foo.bar.baz", "hi"] // <div id="foo" class="bar baz">hi</div>

```
The presence of the attributes object (2nd array index) is optional. Any attribute values, incl. functions are allowed. If the latter, the function is called with the full attribs object as argument and the return value is used for the attribute. This allows for the dynamic creation of attrib values based on other attribs. The only exception to this are event attributes, i.e. attribute names starting with "on". Function values assigned to event attributes will be omitted from the output.

```js
["div#foo", { bar: (attribs) => attribs.id + "-bar" }]
// <div id="foo" bar="foo-bar"></div>

```
The `style` attribute can ONLY be defined as string or object.

```js
["div", {style: {color: "red", background: "#000"}}]
// <div style="color:red;background:#000;"></div>

```
Boolean attribs are serialized in HTML5 syntax (present or not). `null`<!-- -->, `undefined` or empty string attrib values are ignored.

Any `null` or `undefined` array values (other than in head position) will also be removed, unless a function is in head position.

A function in head position of a node acts as a mechanism for component composition &amp; delayed execution. The function will only be executed at serialization time. In this case the optional global context object and all other elements of that node / array are passed as arguments when that function is called. The return value the function MUST be a valid new tree (or `undefined`<!-- -->).

If the `ctx` object it'll be passed to each embedded component fns. Optionally call [derefContext](./hiccup.derefcontext.md) prior to [serialize](./hiccup.serialize.md) to auto-deref context keys with values implementing the [IDeref](./api.ideref.md) interface.

```js
const foo = (ctx, a, b) => ["div#" + a, ctx.foo, b];

serialize([foo, "id", "body"], { foo: { class: "black" } })
// <div id="id" class="black">body</div>

```
Functions located in other positions are called ONLY with the global context arg and can return any (serializable) value (i.e. new trees, strings, numbers, iterables or any type with a suitable `.toString()`<!-- -->, `.toHiccup()` or `.deref()` implementation).

If the optional `span` flag is true (default: false), all text content will be wrapped in <span> elements (this is to ensure DOM compatibility with hdom). The only elements for spans are never created are listed in `NO_SPANS` in `api.ts`<!-- -->.

If the optional `keys` flag is true (default: false), all elements will have an autogenerated `key` attribute injected. If `span` is enabled, `keys` will be enabled by default too (since in this case we assume the output is meant to be compatible with [@thi.ng/hdom](./hdom.md)<!-- -->).

hiccup &amp; hdom control attributes (i.e. attrib names prefixed with `__`<!-- -->) will be omitted from the output. The only control attrib supported by this package is `__serialize`<!-- -->. If set to `false`<!-- -->, the entire tree branch will be excluded from the output.

Single or multiline comments can be included using the special `COMMENT` tag (`__COMMENT__`<!-- -->) (always WITHOUT attributes!).

```
[COMMENT, "Hello world"]
// <!-- Hello world -->

[COMMENT, "Hello", "world"]
<!--
    Hello
    world
-->

```
Currently, the only processing / DTD instructions supported are:

- `?xml` - `!DOCTYTPE` - `!ELEMENT` - `!ENTITY` - `!ATTLIST`

These are used as follows (attribs are only allowed for `?xml`<!-- -->, all others only accept a body string which is taken as is):

```
["?xml", { version: "1.0", standalone: "yes" }]
// <?xml version="1.0" standalone="yes"?>

["!DOCTYPE", "html"]
// <!DOCTYPE html>

```

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
serialize: (tree: any, ctx?: any, escape?: boolean, span?: boolean, keys?: boolean, path?: number[]) => string
```
