<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@thi.ng/interceptors](./interceptors.md) &gt; [EventBus](./interceptors.eventbus.md) &gt; [addBuiltIns](./interceptors.eventbus.addbuiltins.md)

## EventBus.addBuiltIns() method

Adds same built-in event &amp; side effect handlers as in `StatelessEventBus.addBuiltIns()` and the following additions:

\#\#\# Handlers

\#\#\#\# `EV_SET_VALUE`

Resets state path to provided value. See `setIn()`<!-- -->.

Example event definition:

```
[EV_SET_VALUE, ["path.to.value", val]]

```
\#\#\#\# `EV_UPDATE_VALUE`

Updates a state path's value with provided function and optional extra arguments. See `updateIn()`<!-- -->.

Example event definition:

```
[EV_UPDATE_VALUE, ["path.to.value", (x, y) => x + y, 1]]

```
\#\#\#\# `EV_TOGGLE_VALUE`

Negates a boolean state value at given path.

Example event definition:

```
[EV_TOGGLE_VALUE, "path.to.value"]

```
\#\#\#\# `EV_UNDO`

Calls `ctx[id].undo()` and uses return value as new state. Assumes `ctx[id]` is a [History](./atom.history.md) instance, provided via e.g. `processQueue({ history })`<!-- -->. The event can be triggered with or without ID. By default `"history"` is used as default key to lookup the `History` instance. Furthermore, an additional event can be triggered based on if a previous state has been restored or not (basically, if the undo was successful). This is useful for resetting/re-initializing stateful resources after a successful undo action or to notify the user that no more undo's are possible. The new event will be processed in the same frame and has access to the (possibly) restored state. The event structure for these options is shown below:

```
// using default ID
bus.dispatch([EV_UNDO]);

// using custom history ID
bus.dispatch([EV_UNDO, ["custom"]]);

// using custom ID and dispatch another event after undo
bus.dispatch([EV_UNDO, ["custom", ["ev-undo-success"], ["ev-undo-fail"]]]);

```
\#\#\#\# `EV_REDO`

Similar to `EV_UNDO`<!-- -->, but for redo actions.

\#\#\# Side effects

\#\#\#\# `FX_STATE`

Resets state atom to provided value (only a single update per processing frame).

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
addBuiltIns(): any;
```
<b>Returns:</b>

`any`

