<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@thi.ng/transducers](./transducers.md) &gt; [tween](./transducers.tween.md)

## tween() function

Keyframe based interpolator. Yields a sequence of `num+1` equally spaced, tweened values from given keyframe tuples (`stops`<!-- -->). Keyframes are defined as `[time, value]` tuples. Only values in the closed `[min..max]` time interval will be computed.

Interpolation happens in two stages: First the given `init` function is called to transform/prepare pairs of consecutive keyframes into a single interval (user defined). Then, to produce each tweened value calls `mix` with the currently active interval and interpolation time value `t` (re-normalized and relative to current interval). The iterator yields results of these `mix()` function calls.

Depending on the overall `num`<!-- -->ber of samples requested and the distance between keyframes, some keyframes MIGHT be skipped. E.g. if requesting 10 samples within \[0,1\], the interval between two successive keyframes at 0.12 and 0.19 would be skipped entirely, since samples will only be taken at multiples of `1/num` (i.e. 0.0, 0.1, 0.2... in this example).

The given keyframe times can lie outside the `min`<!-- -->/`max` range and also don't need to cover the range fully. In the latter case, tweened values before the first or after the last keyframe will yield the value of the first/last keyframe. If only a single keyframe is given in total, all `num` yielded samples will be that keyframe's transformed value.

```
[...tween({
  num: 10,
  min: 0,
  max: 100,
  init: (a, b) => [a, b],
  mix: ([a, b], t) => Math.floor(a + (b - a) * t),
  stops: [[20, 100], [50, 200], [80, 0]]
})]
// [ 100, 100, 100, 133, 166, 200, 133, 66, 0, 0, 0 ]

```
Using easing functions (e.g. from thi.ng/math), non-linear interpolation within each keyframe interval can be achieved:

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare function tween<A, B, C>(opts: TweenOpts<A, B, C>): IterableIterator<C>;
```

## Parameters

|  Parameter | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  opts | <code>TweenOpts&lt;A, B, C&gt;</code> |  |

<b>Returns:</b>

`IterableIterator<C>`

## Example


```ts
import { mix, smoothStep } from "@thi.ng/math"

[...tween({
  num: 10,
  min: 0,
  max: 100,
  init: (a, b) => [a, b],
  mix: ([a, b], t) => Math.floor(mix(a, b, smoothStep(0.1, 0.9, t))),
  stops: [[20, 100], [50, 200], [80, 0]]
})]
// [ 100, 100, 100, 120, 179, 200, 158, 41, 0, 0, 0 ]

```
- [TweenOpts](./transducers.tweenopts.md) - [interpolate()](./transducers.interpolate.md) - [interpolateHermite()](./transducers.interpolatehermite.md) - [interpolateLinear()](./transducers.interpolatelinear.md)

